Coroutines in android:

Coroutines provide an API to time-share(in the simplest terms) a single thread with multiple procedural code blocks  utilizing the `continuation` API of Kotlin.The coroutines library enables us to utilize these features to build simple and expressive code flow. They are similar to threads in functionality without the overhead that threads bring. By not implicitly assuming concurrency, coroutines are able to provide a much simpler api which can be easily integrated with regular non-concurrent coding semantics(mutable objects,loops etc). The lack of shared state which is  feature of CSP(Communicating Sequential processes) makes writing code with coroutines simpler and more robust.

 These provide a functionality similar to what RXJava does with much better kotlin semantics(RxKotlin attempts to bridge this...sparingly) .A lot of the APIs supported by RxJava but via the  standard kotlin library which could possibly eliminate the need of other reactive libraries .

Almost functionality on android in trigerred by events.Coroutines can help us perform actions sequentially and reducing "Callback-Hell" immensely.

Outline:
- A **DeepDive**:tm: into the coroutines library 
  -  a brief introduction on CSP
  -  Coroutine Context and using dispatchers , their analogous in the rxjava world and their usage with android.
  -  The available higher order coroutine APIs like `launch`,`blocking` along with suitable applications for android
  -  Overview of Actors in kotlin and their usecase in android
- Android specific API:
  - UI coroutines and `suspend` in this context.
  - Actor usecases for android
    - Actors being used in views to update them
  - Allowing actions only in certain contexts(states) for a view
    - Safe and efficient disposal during UI invalidation to avoid leaks and crashes
  - Cover more samples in the android ecosystem with coroutines
    - Showing dialogs in rxjava chains
    - Handling permissions, blocking dialogs
      -waiting for other business functionality to complete before we proceed with the codeflow.
    - Providing states to the UI elements to finitely consume specific actions 
    - Performing background API synchronously and chaining ui events while handling view lifecycle



References:

 - [Kotlin coroutines examples](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlinx.coroutines/blob/master/coroutines-guide.md)
 - [Kotlin UI coroutines examples](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlinx.coroutines/blob/master/ui/coroutines-guide-ui.md)
 - [KotlinConf 2017 - Introduction to Coroutines by Roman Elizarov ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_hfBv0a09Jc)
 - [Coroutines api design](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlin-coroutines/issues?q=sort%3Acreated-asc+label%3A%22coroutines+api%22)
- [/r/androiddev ](https://www.reddit.com/r/androiddev/)

 - [Android-ktx](https://github.com/android/android-ktx)

   


Target audience:
 - Android developers using kotlin and those who are looking to adopt kotlin into their development
 - Teams/Devs who currently craft their asynchronous patterns with pure android/java APIs can explore competitive abstractions to do the same
 - Coroutine and Kotlin enthusiasts who are looking to adopt everything kotlin

Takeaways
- An alternative Sequential programming style in comparison with the current reactive libraries.
- Understanding of difference between concurrency and async in kotlin
- Familiarity with the coroutines library and to understand why it was made
- A brief understanding of the generated byte code of coroutines to be able to gauge the effects on performance



Biography:

- I work in the android team at Go-Jek and on a daily basis deal with problems around tooling and building APIs/libraries used internally.
- I've spoken at BlrDroid on effective modularization with gradle and a few talks covering topics ranging from Build systems, Android design patterns and on Dagger.
- I've worked on the Android ecosystem for the past 5 years and having weathered several of the quirks that Android had back then and has now too.I've actively worked with the build system and feature development aspects of Android development. 


Notes:
- The talk would assume a familiarity of the recipients with Event driven code in Android
- An understanding of Kotlin is also implied.
- I would be assuming that audience understands the various state /  lifecycles of Android components


- A common problem that plagues Android development is managing data while performing asynchronous functionalities often hindered by user interactions and device changes(loss of network, calls etc). I've been trying to address this problem in the form of libraries and design patterns to not much success.However coroutines provide an ideal API to implement these flows.I have worked with coroutine like apis from other languages like C# and have been experimenting with Coroutines for sufficiently long to have an detailed understanding of the subject. I would like to propose how this feature can help ease several pain points of typical android development.